report.md, before:

# Report for assignment 4

## Project

Name: Strongbox

URL: https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox

Strongbox is an Artifact Repository Manager written in Java which allows you to store binary artifacts. It aims to be an easy an reliable platform and supports any repository layout.

## SRS
Software requirement specification for the refactor: [SRS.md](https://github.com/Eika96/strongbox/blob/doc/SRS.md).

## Architectural overview

The Strongbox project consists of several core modules listed below with its corresponding `README.md` shortly describing its content and purpose: 

- [strongbox-client](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-client)/  
This is where the artifact client resides.
- [strongbox-commons](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-commons)/  
This is where the most common code which is across other modules resides.
- [strongbox-event-api](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-event-api)/  
Contains an event API.
- [strongbox-metadata-core](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-metadata-core)/  
This contains the most commonly needed code related to Maven metadata.
- [strongbox-parent](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox-parent/tree/master)  
This is the Maven parent which is (and should be) inherited by all modules. It is the right (and only place) to define versions for dependencies and plugins. Versions of dependencies should not be defined in any other pom.xml files in order to ease the maintenance of these across the codebase.
- [strongbox-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources)/  
This is the place where common resources which can be used by multiple projects reside. The idea is not have to duplicate things such as `logback.xml`, `web.xml`, keystores and so on across the other modules. These resources are copied using the `maven-dependency-plugin`.`
  - [strongbox-common-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources/strongbox-common-resources)/  
Contains `logback.xml` and keystores.
  - [strongbox-storage-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources/strongbox-storage-resources)/  
    - [strongbox-storage-api-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources/strongbox-storage-resources/strongbox-storage-api-resources)/
Contains the `strongbox.xml` configuration file.
    - [strongbox-web-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources/strongbox-web-resources)/  
Contains the `web.xml` and the Jetty configuration files.
- [strongbox-rest-client](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-rest-client)/  
Contains the REST API client.
- [strongbox-security-api](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-security-api)/  
Contains various security and encryption related classes.
- [strongbox-storage](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-storage)/  
Contains the code for the storage related modules.
  - [strongbox-storage-api](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-storage/strongbox-storage-api)/  
Contains the most common code for storages (`Storage`, `Repository`, `*LocationResolver`, etc)
  - [strongbox-storage-indexing](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-storage/strongbox-storage-indexing)/  
Contains the Lucene indexing code.
  - [strongbox-storage-metadata](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-storage/strongbox-storage-metadata)/  
Contains a service wrapper and XML marshalling/unmarshalling for Maven metadata.
- [strongbox-testing](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-testing)/  
Contains various very useful base classes for testing
  - [strongbox-testing-core](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-testing/strongbox-testing-core)/  
Contains code for generation of valid Maven artifacts.
  - [strongbox-testing-web](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-testing/strongbox-testing-web)/  
Contains a dummy implementation of a Jersey application. Sometimes useful for lightweight tests.
- [strongbox-web-core](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-web-core)/  
This is the web module which contains all the controllers.

Our focus has been on the strongbox-web-core module since that is the module we refactored. The module is used for the REST API where repositories can be created, altered or deleted but there are also other operations available like handling cron jobs or configuring the server itself. The REST API is built on Spring and uses the MVC pattern. MVC stands for model, view, controller. The models are classes for storing data, like the Repository class for example which holds information about a repository. Views are used for rendering ouput to the user in various formats. Most views are in JSON or XML format even tough HTML or plain text rendering is sometimes used. Controllers are used to handle requests, operate on models and return a response in form of a view. The controllers are in other words the classes that does the heavy work and connects the models and views and performs the actual computations and processings. By using Spring a lot of the API functionality comes out of the box and by using various code annotations instructions are given to Spring of how to configure the API. Furthermore, dependency injection is widely using throughout the project. This is done by using the @Inject annotation which can inject dependencies registered for injection. This is done with for example the Logger class which is used in almost every controller in strongbox-web-core for logging during runtime. The logger is also widely used throughout the entire system. Spring is also extensively used for Unit testing and Integration testing. The Spring java framwork is run on top of a Tomcat server so that requests may be handled by the server. An interresting fact about the testing process is that it extensivly uses maven to not only build the modules but also deploy them during the testing process. By deploying the servers for testing it allows for easier testing methods that do not require as much mocked objects. The drawback of performing tests this way is that the testing process becomes more reliable on the underlying development hardware. Running all unittests takes roughly 5 minutes on an Intel i7 / 8GB RAM setup and running the entire test suite (including integration tests) takes roughly 30 minutes on the same system. Another drawback of using this architecture for testing is that putting high strain on the hardware during testing seems to cause sporadic test failures where the server could not respond to the request. This means that there may be test failures that could be the result of either bugs or a slower testing system.

## Selected issue(s)

Title: HandlerMethodArgumentResolver to resolve Repository instance based on `{storageId}/{repositoryId}` path variables #528

URL: https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/issues/528

The issue request an new repository mapping argument resolver which will check the validity of a given repository. This handler could be used in many parts of the project but the example given in the issue is to add the resolver to the ThrashController.

## Onboarding experience

There are build instructions in the projects `README.md`. Some of the links are dead which was annoying and shows a lack of care from the projects side. However we were able to build the project without much hickup anyway.

It should be noted that we have not found a way to run a specific test suite 
without rebuilding the whole project. If we simply attempt to run the tests 
multiple times with `mvn test` multiple tests will fail which didn't fail during
program compilation. This can be quite an annoyance since the whole project
takes about 10 minutes to build on a 5:th generation i5 processor.

## Existing test cases relating to refactored code

The following controllers are affected by the refactor and will use the new annotation `RepositoryMapping`.

```
BaseArtifactController.java
BrowseController.java
RepositoryMappingArgumentResolver.java
TrashController.java
ArtifactCoordinateValidatorsManagementController.java
HttpConnectionPoolConfigurationManagementController.java
StoragesConfigurationController.java
NpmArtifactController.java
NugetArtifactController.java
```

They are essentially tested in the same way and the testing procedure for `TrashController` is described below. The test procedure for the other controllers work in the same way.

The existing test cases for the `delete` and `undelete` [TrashController](./strongbox-web-core/src/main/java/org/carlspring/strongbox/controllers/TrashController.java) 
function works by creating artificial repositories with different properties, 
performing the operations and asserting that the `delete/undelete` operation 
was successfully performed. This is done by simulating/mocking a POST request
for these specific operations. While the existing tests ensure that the operations
are are successful on artificially generated repos there are a lot of different 
cases which are not accounted for. There are for instance no tests which would 
result in the operation failing (such as attempting to delete/undelete data 
from a non-existing repo). Since the tests doesn't test the functions directly 
(they relay on mocked POST requests) a failure in another method might cause a 
test to fail. This is handled by asserting on different error messages. The 
existing TrashController tests should be considered integration tests rather 
than as unit tests.

## Test requirements 

### RepositoryMappingArgumentResolver

We implement full node-coverage (NC) for the `RepositoryMappingArgumentResolver`
class. The condensation graph below provides a overview of the structure of the 
`resolveArgument` function. In addition to this both outcomes of `supportsParameter`
are tested as well. The tests are implemented in [RepositoryMappingArgumentResolverTest](https://github.com/Eika96/strongbox/blob/develop/strongbox-web-core/src/test/java/org/carlspring/strongbox/controllers/RepositoryMappingArgumentResolverTest.java).

![Condensation graph for resolveArgument](./doc-resources/Condensation_graph_resolve_argument.svg)

```
C1: storage == null
C2: repository == null
C3: !repository.isInService()
```

#### Test requirements and functional requirements tracability
The following requirements are tested in the added test case. Some of them are linked to a functional requirement in the SRS (SRS.md) and for tracability that is written in parentheses after the requirement.

**TR1:** n0

**TR2:** n1 (Corresponds to functional requirement R2, tested by test case testResolveArgumentNullStorage)

**TR3:** n2

**TR4:** n3

**TR5:** n4 (Corresponds to functional requirement R3, tested by test case testResolveArgumentNullRepo)

**TR6:** n5

**TR7:** n6 (Corresponds to functional requirement R4, tested by test case testResolveArgumentRepoNotInService)

**TR8:** n7

**TR9:** n8 (Corresponds to functional requirement R1, tested by test case testResolveArgumentSuccess)

**TR10:** supportsParameter() == true

**TR11:** supportsParameter() == false


## The refactoring carried out

UML before refactor: [https://repository.genmymodel.com/alan.ihre/se-assignment-4-old](https://repository.genmymodel.com/alan.ihre/se-assignment-4-old).

UML after refactor: [https://repository.genmymodel.com/alan.ihre/se-assignment-4](https://repository.genmymodel.com/alan.ihre/se-assignment-4).

## Test logs

Overall results with link to a copy of the logs (before/after refactoring).

The refactoring itself is documented by the git log.

## Effort spent

On average each member of the group spent the following time doing:  

1. plenary discussions/meetings; 1.5 hours

2. discussions within parts of the group; 3 hours

3. reading documentation;  3 hours

4. configuration; 1 hour

5. analyzing code/output; 2 hours

6. writing documentation; 6 hours

7. writing code; 6 hours

8. running code? 2 hours

## Overall experience

It can be hard to clearly understand the issues of a new project since they are written with a different target audience. 
For us as an external helping hand it's important for the documentation to be well written so we can easily get started with the project. Since this is not the larged project out there, but we still ran into some issues with e.g. onboarding, this shows the impotance of good documentation throughout code, text-files and links etc. 

## Contributions
Max: Documentation and report

Anton: Documentation and report

Erik: Setting up repository and Jenkins, refactoring, writing report

Nicklas: Responsible for testing, writing report

Alan: Refactoring and UML, writing report

Commit message:

Added some more text to the architecture overview.

report.md, after:

# Report for assignment 4

## Project

Name: Strongbox

URL: https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox

Strongbox is an Artifact Repository Manager written in Java which allows you to store binary artifacts. It aims to be an easy an reliable platform and supports any repository layout.

## SRS
Software requirement specification for the refactor: [SRS.md](https://github.com/Eika96/strongbox/blob/doc/SRS.md).

## Architectural overview

The Strongbox project consists of several core modules listed below with its corresponding `README.md` shortly describing its content and purpose: 

- [strongbox-client](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-client)/  
This is where the artifact client resides.
- [strongbox-commons](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-commons)/  
This is where the most common code which is across other modules resides.
- [strongbox-event-api](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-event-api)/  
Contains an event API.
- [strongbox-metadata-core](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-metadata-core)/  
This contains the most commonly needed code related to Maven metadata.
- [strongbox-parent](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox-parent/tree/master)  
This is the Maven parent which is (and should be) inherited by all modules. It is the right (and only place) to define versions for dependencies and plugins. Versions of dependencies should not be defined in any other pom.xml files in order to ease the maintenance of these across the codebase.
- [strongbox-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources)/  
This is the place where common resources which can be used by multiple projects reside. The idea is not have to duplicate things such as `logback.xml`, `web.xml`, keystores and so on across the other modules. These resources are copied using the `maven-dependency-plugin`.`
  - [strongbox-common-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources/strongbox-common-resources)/  
Contains `logback.xml` and keystores.
  - [strongbox-storage-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources/strongbox-storage-resources)/  
    - [strongbox-storage-api-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources/strongbox-storage-resources/strongbox-storage-api-resources)/
Contains the `strongbox.xml` configuration file.
    - [strongbox-web-resources](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-resources/strongbox-web-resources)/  
Contains the `web.xml` and the Jetty configuration files.
- [strongbox-rest-client](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-rest-client)/  
Contains the REST API client.
- [strongbox-security-api](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-security-api)/  
Contains various security and encryption related classes.
- [strongbox-storage](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-storage)/  
Contains the code for the storage related modules.
  - [strongbox-storage-api](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-storage/strongbox-storage-api)/  
Contains the most common code for storages (`Storage`, `Repository`, `*LocationResolver`, etc)
  - [strongbox-storage-indexing](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-storage/strongbox-storage-indexing)/  
Contains the Lucene indexing code.
  - [strongbox-storage-metadata](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-storage/strongbox-storage-metadata)/  
Contains a service wrapper and XML marshalling/unmarshalling for Maven metadata.
- [strongbox-testing](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-testing)/  
Contains various very useful base classes for testing
  - [strongbox-testing-core](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-testing/strongbox-testing-core)/  
Contains code for generation of valid Maven artifacts.
  - [strongbox-testing-web](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-testing/strongbox-testing-web)/  
Contains a dummy implementation of a Jersey application. Sometimes useful for lightweight tests.
- [strongbox-web-core](https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/tree/master/strongbox-web-core)/  
This is the web module which contains all the controllers.

Our focus has been on the strongbox-web-core module since that is the module we refactored. The module is used for the REST API where repositories can be created, altered or deleted but there are also other operations available like handling cron jobs or configuring the server itself. The REST API is built on Spring and uses the MVC pattern. MVC stands for model, view, controller. The models are classes for storing data, like the Repository class for example which holds information about a repository. Views are used for rendering ouput to the user in various formats. Most views are in JSON or XML format even tough HTML or plain text rendering is sometimes used. Controllers are used to handle requests, operate on models and return a response in form of a view. The controllers are in other words the classes that does the heavy work and connects the models and views and performs the actual computations and processings. By using Spring a lot of the API functionality comes out of the box and by using various code annotations instructions are given to Spring of how to configure the API. Furthermore, dependency injection is widely using throughout the project. This is done by using the @Inject annotation which can inject dependencies registered for injection. This is done with for example the Logger class which is used in almost every controller in strongbox-web-core for logging during runtime. The logger is also widely used throughout the entire system. Spring is also extensively used for Unit testing and Integration testing. The Spring java framwork is run on top of a Tomcat server so that requests may be handled by the server. An interresting fact about the testing process is that it extensivly uses maven to not only build the modules but also deploy them during the testing process. By deploying the servers for testing it allows for easier testing methods that do not require as much mocked objects. The drawback of performing tests this way is that the testing process becomes more reliable on the underlying development hardware. Running all unittests takes roughly 5 minutes on an Intel i7 / 8GB RAM setup and running the entire test suite (including integration tests) takes roughly 30 minutes on the same system. Another drawback of using this architecture for testing is that putting high strain on the hardware during testing seems to cause sporadic test failures where the server could not respond to the request. This means that there may be test failures that could be the result of either bugs or a slower testing system.

The Spring framework is used by Stronbox for serving requests to the REST API. The Spring framework itself is built on a Tomcat server which is one of the reasons for why the application takes so long time to start since Tomcat is quite slow starting up and requires a lot of memory. However, Tomcat provides the Spring framework and in turn the Strongbox framework with a stable, tested and well used server.
![Server inherticance architecture](arch.png)


## Selected issue(s)

Title: HandlerMethodArgumentResolver to resolve Repository instance based on `{storageId}/{repositoryId}` path variables #528

URL: https://github.com/strongbox/strongbox/issues/528

The issue request an new repository mapping argument resolver which will check the validity of a given repository. This handler could be used in many parts of the project but the example given in the issue is to add the resolver to the ThrashController.

## Onboarding experience

There are build instructions in the projects `README.md`. Some of the links are dead which was annoying and shows a lack of care from the projects side. However we were able to build the project without much hickup anyway.

It should be noted that we have not found a way to run a specific test suite 
without rebuilding the whole project. If we simply attempt to run the tests 
multiple times with `mvn test` multiple tests will fail which didn't fail during
program compilation. This can be quite an annoyance since the whole project
takes about 10 minutes to build on a 5:th generation i5 processor.

## Existing test cases relating to refactored code

The following controllers are affected by the refactor and will use the new annotation `RepositoryMapping`.

```
BaseArtifactController.java
BrowseController.java
RepositoryMappingArgumentResolver.java
TrashController.java
ArtifactCoordinateValidatorsManagementController.java
HttpConnectionPoolConfigurationManagementController.java
StoragesConfigurationController.java
NpmArtifactController.java
NugetArtifactController.java
```

They are essentially tested in the same way and the testing procedure for `TrashController` is described below. The test procedure for the other controllers work in the same way.

The existing test cases for the `delete` and `undelete` [TrashController](./strongbox-web-core/src/main/java/org/carlspring/strongbox/controllers/TrashController.java) 
function works by creating artificial repositories with different properties, 
performing the operations and asserting that the `delete/undelete` operation 
was successfully performed. This is done by simulating/mocking a POST request
for these specific operations. While the existing tests ensure that the operations
are are successful on artificially generated repos there are a lot of different 
cases which are not accounted for. There are for instance no tests which would 
result in the operation failing (such as attempting to delete/undelete data 
from a non-existing repo). Since the tests doesn't test the functions directly 
(they relay on mocked POST requests) a failure in another method might cause a 
test to fail. This is handled by asserting on different error messages. The 
existing TrashController tests should be considered integration tests rather 
than as unit tests.

## Test requirements 

### RepositoryMappingArgumentResolver

We implement full node-coverage (NC) for the `RepositoryMappingArgumentResolver`
class. The condensation graph below provides a overview of the structure of the 
`resolveArgument` function. In addition to this both outcomes of `supportsParameter`
are tested as well. The tests are implemented in [RepositoryMappingArgumentResolverTest](https://github.com/Eika96/strongbox/blob/develop/strongbox-web-core/src/test/java/org/carlspring/strongbox/controllers/RepositoryMappingArgumentResolverTest.java).

![Condensation graph for resolveArgument](./doc-resources/Condensation_graph_resolve_argument.svg)

```
C1: storage == null
C2: repository == null
C3: !repository.isInService()
```

#### Test requirements and functional requirements tracability
The following requirements are tested in the added test case. Some of them are linked to a functional requirement in the SRS (SRS.md) and for tracability that is written in parentheses after the requirement.

**TR1:** n0

**TR2:** n1 (Corresponds to functional requirement R2, tested by test case testResolveArgumentNullStorage)

**TR3:** n2

**TR4:** n3

**TR5:** n4 (Corresponds to functional requirement R3, tested by test case testResolveArgumentNullRepo)

**TR6:** n5

**TR7:** n6 (Corresponds to functional requirement R4, tested by test case testResolveArgumentRepoNotInService)

**TR8:** n7

**TR9:** n8 (Corresponds to functional requirement R1, tested by test case testResolveArgumentSuccess)

**TR10:** supportsParameter() == true

**TR11:** supportsParameter() == false


## The refactoring carried out

UML before refactor: [https://repository.genmymodel.com/alan.ihre/se-assignment-4-old](https://repository.genmymodel.com/alan.ihre/se-assignment-4-old).

UML after refactor: [https://repository.genmymodel.com/alan.ihre/se-assignment-4](https://repository.genmymodel.com/alan.ihre/se-assignment-4).

## Test logs

Overall results with link to a copy of the logs (before/after refactoring).

The refactoring itself is documented by the git log.

## Effort spent

On average each member of the group spent the following time doing:  

1. plenary discussions/meetings; 1.5 hours

2. discussions within parts of the group; 3 hours

3. reading documentation;  3 hours

4. configuration; 1 hour

5. analyzing code/output; 2 hours

6. writing documentation; 6 hours

7. writing code; 6 hours

8. running code? 2 hours

## Overall experience

It can be hard to clearly understand the issues of a new project since they are written with a different target audience. 
For us as an external helping hand it's important for the documentation to be well written so we can easily get started with the project. Since this is not the larged project out there, but we still ran into some issues with e.g. onboarding, this shows the impotance of good documentation throughout code, text-files and links etc. 

## Contributions
Max: Documentation and report

Anton: Documentation and report

Erik: Setting up repository and Jenkins, refactoring, writing report

Nicklas: Responsible for testing, writing report

Alan: Refactoring and UML, writing report
